pwd - To find present folder (Present working directory).
cd folder_name - To open a folder(change directory).
cd ../ - To come out of a folder (change directory).
ls - To view a files in a folder (list).
mkdir folder_name - To make a folder (make directory).
rmdir folder_name - To remove a empty folder (remove empty directory).
cd ~ - To come out of the directory same like (cd ../).
clear - To Clear previous used comments.
rm -r file location - To delete a folder and file (remove).
touch file_name - To create a file.
cp file_name location to paste - eg. cp file.txt /home/rajan/linuxtest. (copy) .
mv file_name file_name - eg. file.txt index.php (renaming files).
cat file_name - open and read a file ().
cat > file_name (press enter) (type your content here) - To Overwrite a content in a file.
cat >> file_name (press enter) (type your content here) - To merge a content in a file.
mv file_name file_location - To move a file or a folder.
df -m - To view mounted files.
unzip file_name - To unzip a file.
ifconfig - To find a ip address.




File and Directory Operations:

ls: List files and directories
cd: Change directory
pwd: Print working directory
mkdir: Create a directory
touch: Create an empty file or update the timestamp of an existing file
cp: Copy files and directories
mv: Move or rename files and directories
rm: Remove files and directories
find: Search for files and directories

File Viewing and Editing:

cat: Display the contents of a file
more: View the contents of a file one page at a time
less: View the contents of a file with backward navigation support
head: Display the beginning lines of a file
tail: Display the ending lines of a file
nano: A simple command-line text editor
vim: A powerful command-line text editor

System Information and Management:

uname: Print system information
whoami: Print the current user
top: Monitor system processes
ps: Display running processes
kill: Terminate a process
shutdown: Shutdown or restart the system
reboot: Reboot the system
df: Display disk space usage
du: Estimate file and directory space usage
free: Display memory usage
ifconfig: Network interface configuration

Package Management:

apt-get: Advanced Package Tool, used for package management and installation
apt-cache: Query the APT cache
dpkg: Install, remove, and manage Debian packages
snap: Package manager for snap packages

User and Permission Management:

sudo: Execute a command as a superuser
su: Switch to another user account
adduser: Create a new user
usermod: Modify user account properties
chown: Change the owner of a file or directory
chmod: Change file permissions
chgrp: Change group ownership of a file or directory

Networking:

ping: Send ICMP echo requests to a host
ifconfig: Configure and display network interfaces
netstat: Network statistics
ssh: Secure Shell client
scp: Securely copy files between hosts
wget: Download files from the web
curl: Transfer data from or to a server
iptables: Firewall management

These are just some of the commonly used commands in Ubuntu. Remember to use the man command followed by the command name to access the manual pages and get more information about each command's usage and options.